martinburke posted:

Old school boxers get more credit because the competition was so much fiercer before WWII, and the slide down since then is due to a couple of factors:

The most important factor is the HUGE improvement in social and economic conditions compared to before the New Deal. There was no welfare, no indigent safety net. It was truly dog-eat-dog. People weren't just metaphorically "hungry"...many people were literally days away from starvation. If you're broke now, you can get assistance. Back then...get the fuck out.

Another factor is the rise of other sports. Up until the '50s, the two major sports were baseball and boxing. Big time football was college football. Pro football was this little regional semi-professinal sport mainly restricted to the Iron Belt. Basketball was still a minor sport, and most people considered it a East coast thing, if they thought about it at all. So if a guy wanted to be a full-time pro athlete, you either played baseball or you boxed.

Look at it this way:

*In 1927 there were 2,000 licensed professional boxers residing in the state of New York, and that over 900 boxing shows were promoted throughout the state.

*In 2006 the state licensed 50 pro boxers and staged just 38 shows.

*During the 1920.s and 1930.s approximately 8,000 . 10,000 professional boxers were licensed annually in the U.S., while in 2006 that figure had dropped to 2,850.

*In 1925 a fighter had engaged in an average of 84 professional contests before fighting for the title, while in 2007 a fighter had fought an average of only 27 times before receiving a shot at a title.

What you have today are a handful of talented fighters competing against a severely diluted pool of talent. So of course they're going to be able to look great against the majority. To compound the illusion, the very best fighters today rarely fight anybody who can offer some resistance. And look what happens in so many cases when two top fighters meet: cautious affairs that are often decided on basic beginner mistakes.

Some of the crap you see fighters pull today would have gotten their teeth punched in when boxing was king.

In the old days, those rookie rough edges would have been ironed out in the furnace of competition long before a fighter reached main event status.

Don't let the big muscles on modern athletes fool you, either. In the old days, you had to weigh in on the day of the fight. Sometimes they had to weigh in AT RINGSIDE. You're not going to be able to make weight with an artificially pumped up physique in those conditions.

About the modern records in sports. Somebody did a little experiment a few years back: they had world-class sprinters wear the same type of spikes, the same type starting blocks, and the same type cinder track that was used by Jesse Owens back in the '30s. They had the sprinters run a number of races, and the times ended up the same or a little slower than times in the 1930s. Equipment has its effect.

http://www.mixedmartialarts.com/mma.cfm?go=forum.posts&forum=1&thread=1409911&page=4
